[MUSIC]
>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's talk a little
bit about the client and server and
what happens when you're on a web page.
So you're on the web page and
you click a link.
What happens behind the scenes
is the client is creating
an http request and
it's sending it over to the server, so
it's like knock, knock,
server, I want this.
And the server is gonna come back and
say I have it or I don't.
So the server finds the thing that
you asked for, bundles it up, and
sends it back to the client.
After this, the client decides
what it's going to do with it.
If it's an image or an HTML page it's
going to go ahead and display it.
So things that run on the client
side are HTML, JavaScript and Flash.
Things that run on the server
side are things like PHP,
MySQL, anything that does generation.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So this is a really
brief example of an HTTP request.
So GET is an HTTP verb, so
you're sending this instruction
to the server,
you're saying get me this link.
The version of HTTP I'm using is 1.1,
which is not important,
the host is which server
these resources will live on,
and the accept is what the client
is expecting to get back.
So the server will handle the request and
it's going to send back something
like this to the client.
The number 200 and OK is important,
200 is an HTTP status code.
So the client end server don't need to
know, they don't need that okay message,
they know purely by that number that
everything went exactly as planned.
And so you'll get back in
this example some html, and
then your client, your browser knows
how to translate that into what we see.
So colors, images, different font sizes.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now here's a page
that we've all seen a lot, and
why does this happen?
It means that the web server couldn't
find the file that you asked for.
So you asked for
a file that doesn't exist.
So some really common HTTP Status Codes,
ones we probably see almost everyday,
200 means okay,
404 means that that file wasn't found,
and 500 is a server error.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So a good way of
figuring out what your status code means,
if you see it, ones in the hundreds
are purely informational.
Ones in the two hundreds
indicate success of some sort.
Three hundreds are redirection, so
that means something has moved.
Four hundreds are client errors, and
five hundreds are server errors.